# OQS Technical Steering Committee meeting – 2025-10-21 – minutes

## Attendees

TSC members

- [x] [Norman Ashley (Cisco)](https://github.com/ashman-p)
- [x] [Michael Baentsch (independent contributor)](https://github.com/baentsch)
- [ ] [Thomas Bailleux (independent contributor)](https://github.com/zadlg)
- [ ] [Vlad Gheorghiu (softwareQ Inc.)](https://github.com/vsoftco)
- [x] [Basil Hess (IBM Research)](https://github.com/bhess)
- [x] [Christian Paquin (Microsoft Research)](https://github.com/christianpaquin)
- [x] [Douglas Stebila (University of Waterloo)](https://github.com/dstebila)

Other attendees

- Ganyu Xu [(University of Waterloo)](https://github.com/xuganyu96)

**Date and time:** Tuesday, October 21, 2025, 14:00-15:00 UTC / 7:00-8:00 US Pacific / 10:00-11:00 US Eastern / 16:00-17:00 Central European

Information about the TSC (members, roles and responsibilities, charter) is available on Github at [https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc)


## Agenda

1. Chair's introduction
2. Approve agenda
3. Appoint minute-taker
4. Review [action items from previous meeting](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/blob/main/meetings/2025-08-12/minutes.md)
    - ACTION: Add language to voting procedure explicitly indicating that people can abstain. DONE.
5. Reports
    - PQCA TAC (Norm)
    - PQ Code Package
    - PQCA general / Outreach and Education committee (Hart)
6. Debriefing on OpenSSL Conference (Michael/Norm/Douglas)
7. OQS Provider Community Call on Thursday October 23
8. CI usage ([[1]](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs/issues/2291), [[2]](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/issues/5))
9. [liboqs 0.15.0 release candidate](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs/pull/2295)
10. Other business


## Agenda

## Chair's introduction

Douglas welcomes attendees.

## Approve agenda

Approved.

## Appoint minute-taker

Christian will take notes.

## Review action items from previous meeting

[Action items from previous meeting](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/blob/main/meetings/2025-08-12/minutes.md):

* ACTION: Add language to voting procedure explicitly indicating that people can abstain: DONE

## Reports

### PQCA TAC (Norm)

PQCA review coming up this week. Michael said we should define success metrics for our projects.

### PQ Code Package

N/A

### PQCA general / Outreach and Education committee (Hart)

N/A

## Debriefing on OpenSSL Conference (Michael/Norm/Douglas)

Michael and Norm shared their impressions: first ever [OpenSSL conference](https://2025.openssl-conference.org/) they organized. 4-track, successful event; will have another next year. Lots of praise to the OQS (provider). Discussed division of responsibilities between OQS and OpenSSL (closer liaison?), and which standard bodies (other than NIST) should we focus on.

## OQS Provider Community Call on Thursday October 23

Planned agenda for the call Douglas/Michael/Basil/Norm. Goal: how can we welcome more contributors. We should create a post-meeting survey for attendees to ask questions. Discussion on slide presentations, and how to publicize the event.

## CI usage

Basil explained CI usage issues:
* [liboqs issue 2291](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs/issues/2291)
* [TSC issue 5](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/issues/5)

Continue the discussion in the issues.

## liboqs 0.15.0 release candidate

Bruce presented the [liboqs 0.15.0 release candidate](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs/pull/2295); need more reviewers.

## Other business

N/A