# OQS Technical Steering Committee meeting – 2025-01-14 – minutes


## Attendees
* Christian Paquin
* Basil Hess
* Douglas Stebila
* Spencer Wilson
* Norman Ashley
* Vlad Gheorghiu
- Hart Montgomery
- Steve Derezinski
- Muria Roberts
* Michael Baentsch

## Agenda

(see [agenda](./agenda.md))

1. Chair's introduction
2. Approve agenda
3. Appoint minute-taker
 - Michael Baentsch
4. Review action items from previous meeting (if any)
 - Security response team: Agreement on time-based assignment rotation; Everyone invited to provide feedback and bring merge-readiness in the next days to https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/pull/124
 - Binary distributions: Douglas to reach out to Nigel where he's at on this collection
5. Reports
 - TAC: No meetings since last OQS meeting.
 - PQCP: alpha release done for mlkem-native; effort underway by Basil to use this to replace PQCrystals and PQClean upstream code bases; PQClean project largely inactive (Douglas opinion); no activity on ML-DSA. 
6. SLH-DSA:
 - No clear consensus as to whether it's worth while adding this to OQS; decision postponed
7. Status of sub projects
 - Several projects pruned by Douglas
 - Input solicited on https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/issues/2 to further gain clarity on project status and goals
 - Agreement that two tables would help discussions going forward: sub-project/status and algorithm/status
 - Norm raises question whether status decision is "top-down" (from PQCA to OQS) or "bottom-up" decision: Hart confirms that status would not have to be aligned with TAC nomenclature/life-cycle document: It's for the sub projects to decide their status/readiness, not for PQCA GB or TAC; PQCA TAC only would reign in over-promising maintainers but not over-promise itself.
8. Ongoing discussion of research track / production track
 - Agreement that OQS is "a long way off" (Douglas) a "commercially supported" piece of software
 - Norm suggested work on criteria for dropping usage warnings; Christian seconded, suggesting clear cut statements what the project does, but also highlighting it's a "best effort" project only
 - General agreement that it would need more commitment, particularly by the commercial entities to improve OQS; Hart and Douglas to take this to the GB
 - General consensus that the committer base must be broadened
9. Other business.
 - Agreement to try to bring more NIST on-ramp algorithm authors to contribute (Hart already reaching out; Basil pointing out that second round closes in February; Douglas stating that efforts to get contributions from NIST submission teams from the original PQC rounds 1/2/3 had limited success for teams we didn't already have a strong connection with)

## Recording location

https://zoom.us/rec/play/IPSmAkjbn5GQUvMABr07sCcRQbdaM_BkSzKdFkRgMq1mw44eDWMMngb_M9q-pjyM5Pxu4SbQcKA3wqeU.Q8R9bS0JafkWem3l
