**OQS Status Meeting Summary - November 4, 2025**

*Note: Generated by Zoom / Linux Foundation AI meeting summary*

**Quick Recap**

The team reviewed the status of the liboqs 0.15 release candidate, with Douglas requesting feedback on whether to proceed with the release. Bruce presented updates on two main projects involving ACVP test vectors and SHDSA integration, while also raising concerns about the API for prehashed variants that could conflict with NIST standards. The team concluded by discussing Kamal's completed JavaScript wrapper for liboqs, including CI implementation options and the possibility of recognizing Kamal's contribution, while also agreeing to continue seeking additional contributors for OQS integration.

**Next Steps**

*   Douglas: Check on the status of the TSC voting procedure
    
*   Douglas: Proceed with the liboqs 0.15 release
    
*   Michael: Create an issue in OQS provider about the next release and tag Norm in it
    
*   Bruce: Rebase the pull request about removing ACVP test vectors after the 015 release
    
*   Bruce: Draft an API design in the main header files for SLHDSA prehash variants
    
*   Michael and Douglas: Work to close out lingering PRs after 0.15 is released, including deciding on PRs that won't be pursued
    
*   Douglas, Michael, and team: Review and land 3-4 PRs after 0.15 release
    
*   Douglas: Create an issue in the TSC repo about formally adopting the liboqs Node JavaScript wrapper subproject
    
*   Douglas: Reach out to Hart or Linux Foundation contacts to find someone with Node/JavaScript packaging expertise to review the JavaScript wrapper
    

**Summary**

**liboqs Release Candidate Review:**

The team discussed the status of liboqs 0.15 release candidate, which was distributed last week.

**OQS Provider Release Coordination:**

Douglas and Michael discussed Norm's involvement in the OQS provider release and testing, clarifying that it was not a blocker for the 0.15 release. Bruce confirmed that the release test script was run, which required compiling OpenSSL from source. Michael agreed to create an issue for the next OQS provider release and tag Norm to take the lead. The team also briefly touched on the possibility of unblocking merging pull requests in liboqs after the release.

**SLHDSA API Standardization Discussion:**

Bruce discussed two main projects: a pull request to remove ACVP test vectors and refactor SLHDSA integration, which will take 4-6 weeks. He also raised concerns about the API for prehashed variants of SLHDSA, noting that expanding it to 144 parameter sets is inconsistent with NIST standards and could cause issues with OQS providers and certificates. Bruce suggested considering a change to the API to better align with NIST standards, even if it means temporary inconsistency with other algorithms.

**liboqs Prehash API Development:**

The team discussed adding prehash variants support to liboqs, agreeing to create a new API rather than modifying the existing sign API. They decided to make the API as generic as possible, supporting all NIST algorithms, with the goal of potentially deprecating the old sign API in the future. Michael suggested closing out lingering PRs after version 0.15 is released, with Douglas agreeing to focus on landing 3-4 PRs and resolving the status of others like the markdown lint feature. The team also noted Rodrigo's promotion from contributor to committer.

**JavaScript Wrapper Contribution Update:**

Kamal discussed the status of the JavaScript wrapper for liboqs, which Kamal has completed and published as an NPM package. Kamal noted that the repository needs to be recreated and signed, and he offered to either transfer it to OQS or create it under OQS's namespace. Douglas acknowledged the contribution. The group also touched on the automatic cleanup feature Kamal added, which is not mandatory but planned for the next update.

**CI Implementation for Node.js Project:**

The team discussed CI implementation for Kamal's Node.js project, with Kamal clarifying that while his current setup uses a self-hosted runner with Emscripten, it could easily be adapted to GitHub Actions or the team's CI Containers project. Douglas agreed to create an issue in the TSC repo to formally adopt the subproject, and mentioned he would reach out to Hart and the Linux Foundation community for expertise in modern JavaScript development and packaging. The team agreed to continue the discussion about finding additional contributors, particularly for OQS integration.