**OQS Status Meeting Summary - February 10, 2026**

*Note: Generated by Zoom / Linux Foundation AI meeting summary*

The Open Quantum Safe (OQS) project team held their regular status update meeting to discuss progress across various sub-projects. The Technical Steering Committee (TSC) reported on ongoing discussions about algorithm inclusion guidelines and the acceptance of liboqs-node as a formal subproject, while also noting the upcoming mentorship program for summer 2026 with a March 13th deadline. The team discussed the removal of SPHINCS+ from liboqs and reviewed several pull requests, including one for MQOM signature algorithm. A significant discussion centered around the future of Classic McEliece algorithm, which will be discontinued by PQClean in June, with the team exploring options for maintaining support despite limited author involvement. The conversation ended with an update about upcoming OQS stickers for promotional use at conferences, with Hart inviting feedback on the design.

**Next Steps**
- TSC voting members: Vote on the proposal to accept the liboqs-node as a formal subproject.
- All interested parties: Propose mentorship project ideas and volunteer as mentors for the PQCA 2026 mentorship program (proposals due March 13th).
- Basil: Review and resolve the CBOM JSON file conflict in the relevant liboqs PR (after being tagged by Douglas).
- Rodrigo: Once the relevant PR merges in liboqs open a PR in OQS provider to cover the same changes and add the naming warning for FrodoKEM.
- Douglas: Bring up the topic of Classic McEliece integration and support for further discussion in a future TSC or appropriate venue.
- Douglas: Circulate an agenda for the next Technical Steering Committee meeting (by next few days).
- Basil: Talk about his experience as a mentor in the next TSC meeting (scheduled for next week).

**Summary**

**TSC Updates and Mentorship Plans:**
Douglas provided updates on the Technical Steering Committee (TSC), including an open pull request for algorithm inclusion guidelines, a vote for the liboqs-node as a formal subproject, and the PQCA's preparation for its mentorship program starting in summer 2026. He mentioned that proposals for the mentorship program are due on March 13th and invited suggestions for both projects and mentors. Basil was asked to share his experience as a mentor in the next TSC meeting. liboqs reported the removal of SPHINCS+ and the landing of pull requests for testing improvements and tolerance to disabled algorithms. New pull requests on a signature algorithm, MQOM, were also mentioned.


**Pull Request Merge Discussion:**

Douglas and Rodrigo discussed the status of a pull request that Rodrigo had reviewed and was ready to merge, pending resolution of a conflict with the CBOM JSON file. Basil offered to help resolve the conflict, and Rodrigo agreed to update the OQS provider once the merge was complete. Douglas mentioned that HQC updates, which Vlad had started but not finished, remained a priority for the next release of liboqs.


**McEliece Algorithm Support Discussion:**

The team discussed the upcoming end of support for PQClean in June and the need to continue supporting the Classic McEliece algorithm. Rodrigo suggested creating a structure from the original repository to maintain the code, but Douglas admitted there was no clear plan. Michael questioned the team's understanding of the McEliece algorithm, and Bruce mentioned that the authors had published a polished version on lib.mceleice.org. The team considered reaching out to the original authors for integration into liboqs, but Douglas doubted they would receive support. They also discussed the possibility of new implementations emerging once the formal standardization process begins.


Douglas and Michael discussed the implementation of libmceliece noting that while it is well-maintained, the authors are unlikely to be involved in integrating it into liboqs. Michael suggested discussing the integration process further in a broader forum like the TSC. The conversation then shifted to checking if there were any other topics related to liboqs or providers that needed attention, but no further issues were raised.


**Provider Repository Issues Discussion:**

Rodrigo expressed confusion about several old issues in the provider repository, noting that they lack clear information and are difficult to understand. He mentioned a basic PR to add tests for content strings and plans to tackle more issues once the FrodoKEM PR merges into liboqs after which he will open a PR on OQS provider to address naming warnings. Douglas inquired about any activity on Boring SSL and OpenSSH, but no updates were provided by Alex or Andrew.


**OQS Sticker Design Feedback:**

Douglas provided a brief update on demos and website changes, noting the removal of SPHINCS+ and some renewed activity in Rust language wrappers. He also mentioned that Hart had shared a link to proposed stickers for PQCA and Open Quantum Safe, which will be printed in the coming months. The team discussed the design, which features the familiar OQS blue background with bold OQS letters, and encouraged feedback on the design.


**Meeting Plans:**

Douglas confirmed a technical steering committee meeting scheduled for next Tuesday, February 17th, at 10am Eastern Time, and promised to circulate an agenda in the coming days.