# OQS Technical Steering Committee meeting – 2025-11-25 – minutes

## Attendees

TSC members

- [x] [Norman Ashley (Cisco)](https://github.com/ashman-p)
- [x] [Michael Baentsch (independent contributor)](https://github.com/baentsch)
- [ ] [Thomas Bailleux (independent contributor)](https://github.com/zadlg)
- [ ] [Vlad Gheorghiu (softwareQ Inc.)](https://github.com/vsoftco)
- [x] [Basil Hess (IBM Research)](https://github.com/bhess)
- [x] [Christian Paquin (Microsoft Research)](https://github.com/christianpaquin)
- [x] [Douglas Stebila (University of Waterloo)](https://github.com/dstebila)

Other attendees

- Ganyu Xu [(University of Waterloo)](https://github.com/xuganyu96)
- Hart Montgomery (LF)

Date and time:** Tuesday, November 25, 2025, [17:30-18:30 UTC / 9:30-10:30 US Pacific / 12:30-13:30 US Eastern / 18:30-19:30 Central European](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20251125T1230&p1=1203)

**Location:** [Zoom](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meetings/pqca?view=week&occurrence=1764091800)

Information about the TSC (members, roles and responsibilities, charter) is available on Github at [https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc)

## Agenda

1. Chair's introduction
2. Approve agenda
3. Appoint minute-taker
4. Review [action items from previous meeting](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/blob/main/meetings/2025-10-21/minutes.md)
    - None
5. Reports
    - PQCA TAC (Norm)
    - PQ Code Package
    - PQCA general / Outreach and Education committee (Hart)
6. Debriefing on OQS Provider Community Call of Thursday October 23 (Norm?)
7. [Vote open on voting procedure](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/pull/205)
8. Upcoming meeting schedule
    - No TSC meeting in December
    - Continue with TSC meeting every 5 weeks in 2026? Starting Tuesday January 13?
9. Interest in a PQCA / OQS meet up in first half of 2026
    - [Previous discussion at September 2025 TSC meeting](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/blob/main/meetings/2025-09-16/minutes.md#9-pqca-support-of-activities)
    - One possibility: 
        - Before / after [Eurocrypt 2026](https://eurocrypt.iacr.org/2026/) which will be in Rome May 10-14, 2026
        - Could do a hackathon-type event to try to attract contributors from the cryptography research community
        - Deadline for proposing official affiliated events is [December 6, 2025](https://eurocrypt.iacr.org/2026/callforaffiliated.php) (Hart?)
10. Seeking input: [New liboqs-node / liboqs-js subproject](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/issues/226)
    - Any Node / JS experts in the community who can provide an opinion?
11. CI usage ([[1]](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs/issues/2291), [[2]](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/issues/5))
12. Other business


## Agenda

## Chair's introduction

Douglas welcomes attendees.

## Approve agenda

Approved.

## Appoint minute-taker

Michael will take notes.

## Review action items from previous meeting

None

## Reports

### PQCA TAC (Norm)

Suggestion to develop project health metrics; input solicited at https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/issues/216

### PQ Code Package

MLDSAnative ready, PR to liboqs active, Basil reviewing; shall replace all other MLDSA upstreams

### PQCA general / Outreach and Education committee (Hart)

Hart requested feedback/input to https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vEs56u4ubMna7yjddDM0FTK2cN5wgn1pKjuEswyBcfI. Michael suggested IETF activity, Douglas provided pointer

## Debriefing on OQS Provider Community Call of Thursday October 23

Norm commented on increased contribution interest by Cisco (Helen, Edwin) that everybody welcomed

Michael and Douglas brought up interest by Aditya to bring in students in mentorship programs (confirmed by Hart to be supported)

Need to find mentors discussed. Douglas to make suggestions how to round up mentors.

## [Vote open on voting procedure](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/pull/205)

Additional votes solicited.

## Upcoming meeting schedule

General agreement to continue with schedule every 5 weeks starting on Jan 16, 2026.

## Interest in a PQCA / OQS meet up in first half of 2026

Hart mentioned several opportunities to set up such meetings, e.g., Eurocrypt, ICMC, RWC. No clear interest by a majority to attend any one event all together to meet.

Discussion ensued how/whether to use such venues to solicit further contributors/contributions. General agreement that neither one venue is ideal (some too theory-focused, some too engineering focused).

General agreement that an effort should be started to solicit on-ramp sig alg contributions by alg authors. Hart agreed to put spreadsheet in place that then shall be filled and executed on by TSC members knowing such authors to explicitly invite them to contribute. Need to provide assistance to such new contributors discussed.

## Seeking input: [New liboqs-node / liboqs-js subproject](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/issues/226)

Douglas reiterated need to find people versed in using node/js code to evaluate proposed new OQS sub project for general suitability as TSC members have no sound knowledge on the topic/language environment. Hart promised to "poke around" for people he thinks are suitable for this and provide feedback (presumably by input to the GH issue).

## CI usage ([[1]](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs/issues/2291), [[2]](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/issues/5))

Basil presented current state of documentation soliciting feedback from everyone. Next steps should be taken in coming weeks by placing the result in a globally accessible Wiki that then shall be linked to from the relevant sub project documentation sections, e.g., Contributing guidelines.

## Other business

N/A
