# OQS Technical Steering – 2025-08-12 – agenda

## Meeting information

**Date and time:** Tuesday, August 12, 2025, 16:30-17:30 UTC / 9:30-10:30 US Pacific / 12:30-13:30 US Eastern / 18:30-19:30 Central European

**Location:** [Zoom](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95087899447?password=6ae71107-6694-48d4-8780-9bf9e6db5c09)

Information about the TSC (members, roles and responsibilities, charter) is available on Github at [https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc)

## Agenda

1. Chair's introduction
2. Approve agenda
3. Appoint minute-taker
4. Review [action items from previous meeting](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/blob/main/meetings/2025-07-08/minutes.md)
    - ACTION: Norm and Pravek to draft some bullet points about OQS Provider wishlist after the next provider release.
    - ACTION: Basil and Douglas to draft some bullet points about liboqs wishlist.
    - ACTION: Hart and Douglas to connect about soliciting contributors based on PQCA membership and responses to the OQS survey.
    - ACTION: Tag issues with "good first issue" and "no math expertise required".
5. Reports
    - PQCA TAC (Norm)
    - PQ Code Package (Pravek)
    - PQCA general / Outreach and Education committee (Hart)
6. [Applying PQCA project lifecycle to OQS](https://github.com/orgs/open-quantum-safe/discussions/2191)
7. AI-generated contributions
    - Do we want to restrict completely? Create issue / PR forms/templates that ask about AI use?
8. Other business
