# OQS Technical Steering Committee meeting – 2025-04-29 – minutes

## Attendees

TSC members

- [x] [Norman Ashley (Cisco)](https://github.com/ashman-p)
- [ ] [Michael Baentsch (independent contributor)](https://github.com/baentsch)
- [ ] [Thomas Bailleux (independent contributor)](https://github.com/zadlg)
- [ ] [Vlad Gheorghiu (softwareQ Inc.)](https://github.com/vsoftco)
- [x] [Basil Hess (IBM Research)](https://github.com/bhess)
- [ ] [Christian Paquin (Microsoft Research)](https://github.com/christianpaquin)
- [x] [Douglas Stebila (University of Waterloo)](https://github.com/dstebila)
- [ ] [Spencer Wilson (University of Waterloo)](https://github.com/SWilson4)

Other attendees

- Hart Montgomery
- Pravek Sharma

## Agenda

1. Chair's introduction
2. Approve agenda
3. Appoint minute-taker
4. Review action items from previous meeting
   - Industry mentors for [PQCA mentorship program](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/tsc/blob/main/meetings/2025-04-29/mentorship.png)
5. Reports
    - PQCA TAC
    - PQ Code Package (Pravek)
    - Outreach and Education committee (Hart)
6. [liboqs 0.14.0 release](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs/releases/tag/0.14.0-rc1)
7. [Applying PQCA project lifecycle to OQS](https://github.com/orgs/open-quantum-safe/discussions/2191)
8. New OQS representative on the [PQCA TAC](https://pqca.github.io/TAC/)
9. Pathways for external contributors / companies to get involved
   - Suggestions from recent PQCA Governing Board meeting:
     - Clear & gentle on-boarding document
     - Examples of past successes: taking the lead on an algorithm or a platform or a feature (e.g., AWS, IBM, Cisco, NVIDIA, Sandbox)
     - Wishlist for major contributions: e.g. composite, updating outdated code, …
     - How to contribute and join the community
10. Other business

## 1. Chair's introduction

Douglas welcomes the attendees.

## 2. Approve agenda

The agenda is approved. 

## 3. Appoint minute-taker

Douglas volunteers to take minutes.

## 4. Review action items from previous meeting

### Industry mentors for PQCA mentorship program

Matthias and Basil will be submitting mentoring proposals, totalling 3 mentors for the fall. Room in the budget for 1 or 2 more. Norm will be working on one to submit.

## 5. Reports

### PQCA TAC

The main item at the PQCA TAC is the lifecycle document. See separate agenda item below.

### PQ Code Package (Pravek)

A new repository has been created for slhdsa-c, based on code by Markku-Juhani Saarinen. A student at Waterloo, Hayden Parsons, is working on integrating this into liboqs.

### Outreach and Education committee (Hart)

PQCA has new social media handles. The Outreach committee is soliciting more blog posts, including about OQS or any other post-quantum activities that participants are working on, such as research or demos.

## 6. liboqs 0.14.0 release

Okay to go.

## 7. Applying PQCA project lifecycle to OQS

Main questions are:

- whether to apply to OQS on a subproject-by-subproject basis or overall
- what categorizations to apply for
- whether to apply on an algorithm-by-algorithm basis

PQ Code Package is leaning towards the "Growth stage" on the "Production projects" track.  

**ACTION**: Discussion to occur on https://github.com/orgs/open-quantum-safe/discussions/2191

## 8. New OQS representative on the PQCA TAC

Spencer has concluded his position at UWaterloo and is moving on to a new job where he won't be working on OQS. We'll need a new liaison from OQS to the PQCA TAC. Norm is already on the PQCA TAC and is willing to represent OQS there for the time being.

## 9. Pathways for external contributors / companies to get involved

- Suggestions from recent PQCA Governing Board meeting:
  - Clear & gentle on-boarding document
  - Examples of past successes: taking the lead on an algorithm or a platform or a feature (e.g., AWS, IBM, Cisco, NVIDIA, Sandbox)
  - Wishlist for major contributions: e.g. composite, updating outdated code, …
  - How to contribute and join the community

We think there could be value in creating a wishlist of curated, high-level items that we would like contributors to help with.

**ACTION**: Norm and Pravek to draft some bullet points about OQS Provider wishlist after the next provider release.

**ACTION**: Basil and Douglas to draft some bullet points about liboqs wishlist.

**ACTION**: Hart and Douglas to connect about soliciting contributors based on PQCA membership and responses to the OQS survey.

Basil suggests using the "good first issue" label.  We started this in the past but it could probably use some curating.

Pravek suggests something like a "no math expertise required" label.

**ACTION**: Tag issues with "good first issue" and "no math expertise required".


## 10. Other business

Norm would like to have discussion in the future about the architecture of OQS provider. Originally OQS provider was designed to be very algorithm agnostic, but that might be worth revisiting. Can happen as a side discussion with any interested parties.

## Next TSC meeting

In 5 weeks, on August 12th, 12:30pm Eastern.

## Meeting recording

[https://zoom.us/rec/play/ngS-iZX0eFxAWQY2nlCnLjzWLUJfQIizBr4J4Mq0FKvcEwEZwPP86-uoucpaf8N-B8Kk_wOY53hQNHyj.49wk9wjoX1Adlgn1](https://zoom.us/rec/play/ngS-iZX0eFxAWQY2nlCnLjzWLUJfQIizBr4J4Mq0FKvcEwEZwPP86-uoucpaf8N-B8Kk_wOY53hQNHyj.49wk9wjoX1Adlgn1)