# OQS Technical Steering Committee meeting – 2025-04-29 – minutes

## Attendees

TSC members

- [x] [Norman Ashley (Cisco)](https://github.com/ashman-p)
- [ ] [Michael Baentsch (independent contributor)](https://github.com/baentsch)
- [ ] [Thomas Bailleux (independent contributor)](https://github.com/zadlg)
- [x] [Vlad Gheorghiu (softwareQ Inc.)](https://github.com/vsoftco)
- [x] [Basil Hess (IBM Research)](https://github.com/bhess)
- [x] [Christian Paquin (Microsoft Research)](https://github.com/christianpaquin)
- [x] [Douglas Stebila (University of Waterloo)](https://github.com/dstebila)
- [x] [Spencer Wilson (University of Waterloo)](https://github.com/SWilson4)

Other attendees
- Balaji Ethirajulu
- Hart Montgomery
- Pravek Sharma

## Agenda

1. Chair's introduction
2. Approve agenda
3. Appoint minute-taker
4. Review action items from previous meeting
5. Reports
	- PQCA TAC (Spencer)
	- PQ Code Package (Pravek)
6. Industry mentors for [PQCA mentorship program](mentorship.png)
7. OQS community survey preliminary results ([Q10-12](survey-Q10-12.jpg), [Q14-17](survey-Q14-17.jpg), [Q18-19](survey-Q18-19.jpg), [Q21-24](survey-Q21-24.jpg))
8. Action plan for soliciting signature on-ramp submissions
9. Other business

## 1. Chair's introduction

Douglas welcomes the attendees.

## 2. Approve agenda

The agenda is approved. Balaji reports that Miguel from Portugal Customs and Tax Authority would like to join the OQS TSC meetings; Douglas asked for an introduction, and that he can join the meetings since they are public.

## 3. Appoint minute-taker

Christian volunteers to take minutes.

## 4. Review action items from previous meeting

### Appointment of a new TSC Chair / Vice Chair

Not much traction, so leave that for the time being.

### Exercise the security response process

Goal: exercise the security response process with a low priority issue. Didn't happen, so Douglas will trigger the process.

## 5. Reports

### PQCA TAC (Spencer)

The TAC only met once since our last meeting (under new leadership from Brian Jarvis). Main topic was the yearly retrospective; the [blog post](https://pqca.org/blog/2025/post-quantum-cryptography-alliance-one-year-anniversary/) was well received. One issue raised: more talent/contributors are needed (more outreach, approach members, etc.). We discussed the need for an OQS retrospective, but didn't conclude we need one.

### PQ Code Package (Pravek)

No major updates. Considering new scheduling to increase attendance. Main work item: specifying ML-DSA. Pravek to get an ETA to inform OQS when we can integrate something in our lib.

### Outreach and Education committee (Hart)

Looking for participants; contact Hart if interested.

## 6. Industry mentors for [PQCA mentorship program](mentorship.png)

Douglas introduced the PQCA-funded and LF-managed remote internship programs for students (at various academic levels); see [slide](mentorship.png). These are 3 months internships for the summer or the fall. Looking for mentors, specially from industry; contact Hart/Balaji if interested. We'll think of OQS-related projects, looking at open issues, infrastructures, language wrappers, etc.

## 7. OQS community survey preliminary results

We reviewed the initial responses to the user survey; see:
* [Q10-12](survey-Q10-12.jpg)
* [Q14-17](survey-Q14-17.jpg)
* [Q18-19](survey-Q18-19.jpg)
* [Q21-24](survey-Q21-24.jpg)

Still early, few responders, but Douglas will reach out to those who asked for a follow up so we can get more clarity. We discussed the "Crypto Agility" question, which only had one respondent, but devolved into a longer conversation. We need more clarity about what we mean and what our users want. Christian referenced a recent NIST [white paper](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/cswp/39/considerations-for-achieving-cryptographic-agility/ipd) on the subject.

## 8. Action plan for soliciting [signature on-ramp](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/pqc-dig-sig/round-2-additional-signatures) submissions

Made some progress, SNOVA is due to land soon. Two options: 1) general call or 2) reach out to individual teams through some contacts we have. Second option is more feasible, so let's take the [list]((https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/pqc-dig-sig/round-2-additional-signatures)) and highlights contacts for algs we are missing. SQIsign is covered; the team is still getting the package ready. We have an [open issue](https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs/issues/2101) for someone wanting to add FAEST. Perhaps reach out at EuroCrypt to various contacts. Hart offers help to reach out to industry folks.

## 9. Other business

None. Next TSC meeting in 5 weeks, on June 3rd, 10am Eastern.

## Meeting recording

https://zoom.us/rec/play/qo303_1b1Yj18GOd8MyReuu1EGDS2QgDtGU9g3Q-ItACaUaa07ttnCIFF9qI8fKE9IUmQ2HafOxNaVYu.32c1vIr3mCRuRYvj